Rapid #: -27034089
CROSS REF ID:             9046388280007966

LENDER:                   INTCH (Reichman University (IDC Herzliya)) :: Main Library

BORROWER:                 AULLO (University of Newcastle) :: Auchmuty Library
TYPE:                     Article CC:CCG

JOURNAL TITLE:            Revista internacional de medicina y ciencias de la actividad física y del deporte

USER JOURNAL TITLE:       International Journal of Medicine & Science of Physical Activity & Sport / Revista Internacional de
                          Medicina y Ciencias de la Actividad Física y del Deporte

ARTICLE TITLE:            MEDICAL DECISION SUPPORT FORFOOTBALL PLAYERS BASED ON MACHINELEARNING
                          HISTORICAL INJURY DATA.

ARTICLE AUTHOR:           Jinhua Fang

VOLUME:                   24

ISSUE:                    96

MONTH:

YEAR:                     2024

PAGES:                    479-489

ISSN:                     1577-0354

OCLC #:



Processed by RapidX:      6/30/2026 3:07:08 AM

This material may be protected by copyright law (Title 17 U.S. Code)
        Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


Fang J and Xiang T. (2024) MEDICAL DECISION SUPPORT FOR FOOTBALL PLAYERS
BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING HISTORICAL INJURY DATA. Revista Internacional de
Medicina y Ciencias de la Actividad Física y el Deporte vol. 24 (96) pp. 479-489.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.15366/rimcafd2024.96.029


                                       ORIGINAL

     MEDICAL DECISION SUPPORT FOR FOOTBALL
      PLAYERS BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING
             HISTORICAL INJURY DATA
Jinhua Fang1, Ting Xiang2*
1
  College of Physical Education and Health, Guilin Institute of Information Technology, Guilin,
Guangxi 541100, China
2
  School of Outdoor Sports, Guilin University of Tourism, Guilin, Guang Xi, 541006, China
E-mail: xianglaoshi6688@163.com

Recibido 18 de octubre de 2023 Received October 18, 2023
Aceptado 18 de puede de 2024 Accepted May 18, 2024

ABSTRACT

Utilizing massive clinical data in the field of football players injuries for assisted
medical decision support is the core technology and inevitable development
trend of smart healthcare. However, due to the characteristics of medical data
such as feature redundancy and imbalance of data sample categories, it has
been difficult for traditional data mining algorithms to be directly applied in
medical data research. In this paper, we propose a data-driven football players
injury prediction method based on the experimental study of football players
injuries occurring during the learning process of youth professional soccer
training, which is based on the machine learning method of decision tree
classifier. Through a semester of data statistics and experiments, the model has
a high accuracy of injury prediction, which can provide early warning of youth
football players injuries and support medical decision-making.

KEYWORDS: Machine Learning; Injury Data; Medical Decision Support

1. INTRODUCTION

       The healthcare field generates a large amount of complex data about
patients' clinical examinations, treatment reports, hospital resource
management records, electronic medical records, medicines, and so on (Dash,
Shakyawar, Sharma, & Kaushik, 2019). Many diseases, especially chronic
diseases, have an insidious onset, long duration, and complex etiology.
Traditional medical decision-making methods often make it difficult to
accurately analyze and diagnose such diseases, which affects the

                                              479
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


effectiveness of treatment. It has been reported that the number of deaths due
to chronic diseases in China has accounted for 86.6% of the total number of
deaths (He et al., 2022), resulting in a disease burden that has accounted for
70% of the total disease burden. The large amount of medical data necessitates
more effective extraction and processing methods to correctly diagnose
diseases and predict the likelihood of a patient's illness or lesion via machine
learning technology, which balances the knowledge of human experts in
relevant fields with the data analyzing and processing potential of computers,
in order to obtain the best disease diagnosis and improve the current situation
of disease prevention, diagnosis, and research. Medical decision support, as
the key technology of smart healthcare, blends IT, artificial intelligence, and
healthcare, and has enormous benefits for disease prevention and patient care
(Al-Asadi, 2018). Among the huge amount of medical data, sports injury cases
are also an important part of it. Historical injury data, characterized by complex
structure and large information level, are not conducive to efficient and highly
accurate diagnosis by doctors. By introducing computer technology into the
medical industry and establishing a medical decision support system, it can
help doctors in the whole process of diagnosis, treatment, examination, and
drug cost of this series of diagnosis and treatment and provide great
convenience for both doctors and patients. Medical Decision Support System
(DSS) analyzes and reasoning of medical data and related professional
knowledge of various structures through machine learning and artificial
intelligence methods, so as to assist doctors in making diagnosis decisions or
risk prediction of diseases (Al-Asadi, 2018; Luu et al., 2020). DSS can be
categorized into two types: fuzzy rule systems (Anooj, 2012) and machine
learning-based DSS. The difference is that fuzzy rule-based systems can
extract rules for information that is not suitable for quantification, such as a
certain symptom that can be caused by multiple diseases and as mentioned in
the literature (Gadaras & Mikhailov, 2009), fuzzy decision support systems can
extract rules from human experts in related fields, which means that fuzzy
decision support systems can do their job well even without a sufficient number
of samples, whereas machine learning methods need to train a classification
model or a prediction model on the selected samples. The machine learning
approach requires training the selected classification or prediction models with
samples, and then using the trained models for disease diagnosis or risk
prediction. In this paper, machine learning-based medical decision support
systems are introduced as the core (Claudino et al., 2019). Machine learning-
based medical decision support mainly includes two aspects of disease risk
prediction and intelligent diagnosis, and its applications have been widely
carried out in many fields: Du et al. proposed a support vector machine
algorithm based on FOA optimization parameters, which was successfully
applied to medical diagnosis prediction, and the prediction effect of this
algorithm was better than that of support vector machine (PSO-SVM) and
support vector machine (GA-SVM) based on genetic optimization algorithm (Du,


                                         480
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


Liu, Yu, & Yan, 2017) through the comparison of the UCI dataset. Support
Vector Machine (PSO-SVM) and Genetic Optimization Algorithm Support
Vector Machine (GA-SVM). Seera M et al. combined neural network and
classification regression tree to solve the problem of medical data classification,
and the feasibility of the algorithm was concluded by comparing the quantitative
metrics such as accuracy, specificity, and so on (Seera & Lim, 2014).
Gorzałczany M B et al. proposed a Multi-Objective Optimization Algorithm
(MOEOA) for the prediction of medical diagnosis and the prediction of medical
diagnosis (Gorzałczany & Rudziński, 2017). algorithm (MOEOA) based fuzzy
rule classification system, which mines simple and easy to understand rules
and is suitable for use in mining various medical data (Theron, 2020). This
paper presents a data-driven football players injury prediction method based on
a decision tree classifier machine learning approach based on an experimental
study of football players injuries learned from a soccer ball. The prediction
method is based on the exercise data collected during a recent training session
and predicts the risk of football players injuries that may occur during a training
session in a future cycle (Karnuta et al., 2020; Ruddy et al., 2019).

2. Methodology

2.1 Principle of Decision Tree Classifier

        At this stage, there are many algorithms used for healthcare data
analysis and processing, and the decision tree algorithm (Soleimanian,
Mohammadi, & Hakimi, 2012) is one of the more common algorithms. The main
task of the decision tree is to extract rules from the data and to predict the
category to which the new data belongs. When dealing with complex problems,
the classification rules constructed by the decision tree are similar to a tree
structure, forming the classification rules sequentially from top to bottom, so the
rules are simple and easy to understand, and are often used to extract the
intrinsic information of medical data. Hunt EB et al. first proposed the
conceptual learning system (CLS) learning algorithm in 1966 (Diehr & Hunt,
1968). Conceptual learning system is also the first decision tree algorithm. The
decision tree algorithm uses information theory knowledge to analyze and
summarize all the attributes of the training samples, and finally generates a
model similar to a tree structure. In the tree structure of a decision tree, the
nodes represent the categories of the samples and the branches represent the
classification rules. The root node of the tree is the most informative attribute in
the training sample, and the middle node of the tree indicates that the subtree
to which it belongs contains the most informative attribute in the training sample.
The decision tree searches for a path from the root node that is most suitable
for the test data to determine the category of the test data, which is based on
the principle of selecting the attribute with the greatest information gain, dividing
the dataset into several subsets, and then using a recursive method to classify
each subset into the same category, and then finally obtaining a model for the

                                         481
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


new dataset's classification and prediction. Decision trees are generated by
recursive splitting, i.e., repeated splitting of values of attributes (Wang, Kwong,
Wang, & Jiang, 2014). Attributes are selected and split based on selection
criteria, such as sport load, age of the athlete, number of injuries, and physical
status. The basic idea of selecting any splitting criteria in the internal nodes is
to make the data in the child nodes belong to a certain category (injured or non-
injured). In general, the recursion stops when all training instances have
corresponding categorized values, i.e., the dataset has completed the
operation of injury prediction.

2.2 Decision Tree Modeling

       The construction of a decision tree model includes: tree generation,
selection of classification attributes, and cross-validation. The main task of
cross-validation is to test the constructed classification rules and construct a
decision tree with high accuracy through repeated corrections (Kim, 2009). The
modeling process of the decision tree is as follows:

      (1) Generate and build a tree: A decision tree generates a model that
resembles the structure of a tree, including root nodes, branch nodes, and leaf
nodes. A leaf node represents a category of the data sample, and a branch
node represents a path to its leaf node.

        (2) Attribute selection and splitting: Information Gain, Information Gain
Rate and Gini Coefficient are the more common methods used for attribute
splitting, in which the smaller the Gini Coefficient is, the more reasonable the
rules of classification are. To select the attribute splitting based on the Gini
coefficient, let 𝐶 be the number of categories in the training samples and 𝑆be
the number of samples, if the probability of the 𝑖 − 𝑡ℎ category appearing in 𝑆
is 𝑝𝑖 , then the Gini coefficient of 𝑆 is denoted as:

                         𝐺𝑖𝑛𝑖(𝑆) = 1 − ∑𝐶𝑖=1 𝑝𝑖2          (1)

      If the set 𝑆 is divided into 𝑆1 , 𝑆2 according to the attribute 𝐶 , the
sample numbers of 𝑆1 , 𝑆2 are denoted by 𝑠1 , 𝑠2 , respectively, and the sample
number of is denoted as 𝑆, the Gini coefficient of the attribute 𝐶is calculated
as:

                              𝑠                𝑠
                   𝐺𝑖𝑛𝑖(𝐶) = 1 𝐺𝑖𝑛𝑖(𝑆1 ) + 2 𝐺𝑖𝑛𝑖(𝑆2 )          (2)
                               𝑠               𝑠


        The Gini coefficient is calculated for each attribute in the set of candidate
attributes that may be selected as a split attribute, and the attribute with the
smallest Gini coefficient is used as the best split attribute for the partition, and
the best partition Gini coefficients are set for all the candidate attributes and
compared to the candidate attributes. The attribute with the smallest Gini

                                         482
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


coefficient is used as the final test attribute. This method is suitable for sample
data with fewer categories and generates subsets of similar size.

        (3) Cross-validation: Cross-validation is a very critical step in the
construction of decision tree models, and the goodness of the extracted rules
has a great relationship with cross-validation. The conventional practice is to
use the training set to test the constructed decision. If the training samples are
good, then the whole data set is used for testing, and the classification accuracy
can be estimated to determine whether the extracted classification rules are
reliable or not.

       (4) Pruning: The constructed decision tree model is prone to overfitting.
Pruning is often used to solve this problem. There are mainly pre-pruning and
post-pruning, the former is to judge whether the nodes currently being
processed are to be further classified by certain judgment criteria in the process
of tree building; the latter is to let the tree "grow fully" by adopting the greedy
strategy, and then prune the tree according to the classification error rate. The
more commonly used pruning method for decision tree pruning is minimizing
the loss function. Let the number of nodes of node 𝐺 be |𝐺|, and 𝑡 be the leaf
node of 𝐺, then the number of samples of the leaf node is 𝑁𝑡 , and the loss
function is obtained as follows:

                                  |𝐺|
                       𝐶(𝐺) = ∑𝑖=1 𝑁𝑡 𝐻𝑡 (𝐺) + 𝛼|𝐺|         (3)

      The first term in the formula is the loss function and the second term
represents the complexity of the decision tree model. When 𝛼 is determined,
the decision tree pruning operation needs to take into account both the error
and the complexity of the model.

3. Training Data Preparation

3.1 Data collection

        A portable 10 Hz GPS, 100 Hz 3D accelerometer, 3D gyroscope, and 3D
digital compass were used to collect volume and load data from the subjects.
Each subject wore a tight-fitting undershirt with the receiver placed between the
shoulder blades, and each player wore his or her own acquisition device during
each training session.

        A total of 927 training sessions were recorded over a 23-week period,
and a set of exercise load metrics were extracted from the data using a software
package. Twelve characteristics were extracted from each exercise data set,
describing the kinematic, metabolic, and physical characteristics of each soccer
participant in terms of exercise load. Information on age, weight, height and
field position was also collected for each participating soccer subject. Table 1

                                         483
        Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


provides a description of the functions considered.

                        Table 1: Characterization of training loads

 EIGEN-SYMBOL       CHARACTERIZATION OF THE TRAINING LOAD
 DIT                Distance of movement in meters during training
 DEX                Exercise distance in excess of 40 m/s
 DMC                Exercise distance in units of metabolic capacity
 HML                Exercise where the athlete's metabolism exceeds 200 W/Kg
 HML/M              Average dm per minute
                    Exercise distance in meters with more than 25.5W/Kg less than
 DEXP
                    19.8Km/h
 ACC2M              Number of times acceleration exceeds 2m/s
 ACC3M              Number of times acceleration exceeds 3m/s
 DCC2M              Deceleration exceeding 2m/s
 DCC3M              Deceleration exceeding 3m/s
                    Impact forces exceeding 2g.
 FIS
                    Impact force is the sum of collision and ground impact forces in training
 ROF                Ratio of DSL to velocity intensity
 AGE                Age of trainee
 BMI                Body Mass Index (BMI): weight (in kg) and height squared (in meters)
 ROLE               Athlete's position on the field (forward, midfielder and defender)
 NIP                Number of injuries prior to participation in training
 CTH                Cumulative training hours
 GAMES              Length of participation in official matches prior to training

        During the 23-week period, the medical personnel documented all non-
contact injuries. A non-contact injury was defined as a tissue injury caused by
a soccer player missing at least the second day of training after the injury
occurred during the next training session. This dataset had 21 non-contact
injuries.

3.2 Feature extraction and dataset construction

        Four training datasets were constructed based on the 12 exercise load
features described in Table 1, and each training dataset included 954 data. 1.
Load characterization dataset for exercise. The sports load feature dataset (WF)
is created by utilizing exponentially weighted moving average (EWMA) for the
training load data from the previous six training sessions. In this work, the
EWMA of the feature PI was estimated with a span of 6 (PIWF) to account for
the athlete's previous injuries as well as the temporal distance of the current
training session. PIWF=0 indicates that the soccer trainee has never been hurt;
PIWF>0 indicates that the soccer trainee has had at least one injury in the past;
and PIWF>1 indicates that the soccer trainee has suffered multiple injuries in
the past. 2. Short-term/long-term exercise load ratio data set (ACWR). The

                                            484
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


likelihood of sport injury was estimated using criteria normally used in sports
science, i.e., calculating the ratio between the last 6 training sessions of EWMA
and the previous 28 days of EWMA. 3. MSWR stands for mean ratio of mean
over standardized exercise load data set. Based on another method for
estimating the likelihood of football players injuries, calculating the ratio
between the mean and standard deviation of the training workload over the
previous 6 days. The lower the variability of an athlete's exercise load
throughout training, the greater his MSWR. 4. A dataset was built using the
three feature sets stated above (WF, ACWR, and MSWR) as well as the
exercise load features. This dataset provides a vector of 42 characteristics and
labels that indicate if an injury occurred during the subsequent training session.

4. Data processing

        First, we use a decision tree classifier to do feature selection, which
reduces the dimensionality of the feature space and therefore the chance of
overlap. To choose the optimal collection of features that can predict injuries in
our dataset, we employ submission feature elimination and cross-validation
(RFECV). We train a Decision Tree Classifier (DT) and a Random Forest
Classifier (RFC) on the new training dataset generated by feature selection.
Therefore, in this paper, we record the football players data of youth soccer
players at the beginning of a semester and train the predictive classification
continuously as the training sessions progress. Before the start of week 𝑊𝑖 of
the training program, the athletic data of week 𝑊1 ~𝑊𝑖 were studied and the
ability to predict injuries in week 𝑊𝑖+1 was evaluated. Given that injury
prediction is a binary classification problem with a positive injury class (1), we
asses s classification goodness in terms of precision, recall, F1 score, and AUC.
Precision is the ratio of successfully classified examples to all instances
allocated to the class by the classifier. Recall represents the proportion of
instances of a given category that the classifier correctly classifies, and the
harmonic mean of precision and recall is used to get the F1 score. The
likelihood that the classifier would categorize a randomly picked positive
instance over a randomly selected negative instance (assuming that "positive"
is greater than "negative") is expressed as the area under the curve. (Assuming
"positive" is preferred over "negative"). AUC near 1 suggests accurate
classification, while AUC near 0.5 shows random classification. We compare
the predictive performance of DT and ETRFC based on four benchmark
classifications. Benchmark classification B1 assigns instances to classes based
on a random assignment principle. Benchmark B2 always assigns the majority
of classes (i.e., non-injured classes), while the benchmark classification always
assigns the minority of classes (i.e., injured classes). If the exponentially
weighted mean variable P I > 0, the base classification B4 is a classifier based
on classification 1 (injury), otherwise the base classification B4 is a classifier
based on classification 0 (no injury). Through the feature selection task, three
out of 42 feature vectors were selected: 𝑃𝐼 𝑊𝐹 , dMSWR HML, and DECWF 2.

                                         485
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


The function 𝑃𝐼 𝑊𝐹 measures the time difference between a player's current
training time and the usual training time of a player who has been injured in the
past. The parameters dMSWR HML and DECWF 2 represent two training
qualities, high metabolic load and quick deceleration, respectively. We
discovered that 41.77% of the injuries detected by the injury classifier happened
after a previously injured athlete returned to regular training and had the
eigenvalues dMSWR HML and DECWF 2, which represent the mean values of
metabolic load variability and sudden deceleration over the previous 6 days,
respectively.




                     Figure 1: Prediction of football players injuries

        Because of the low number of injuries at the start of the training program,
the predictors performed poorly and missed several injuries. However, the
classifier's predictive power improved over time, and it predicted the majority of
the injuries in the second half of the training phase. The data in Figure 1 reveal
that the first phase has a greater influence on the classifier's cumulative
performance. This implies that attempting to forecast injuries from the start is
not a viable strategy, as classification performance may be low at first due to
data paucity. An initial phase of data collection is required in order to collect
sufficient data, the length of which will rely on the needs and plans of young
soccer player management. When the data in Figure 1 was examined, it was
discovered that the classifier's performance had stabilized after 16 weeks of
data collecting. As a result, beginning in week 16, the most reasonable
technique may be to use the classifier for injury avoidance. From the data
shown in Fig. 1, it can be seen that DT detected more than half of the injuries


                                           486
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


(11 out of 21 injuries), and with an F1 score of 0.45, it is the classifier with the
highest prediction accuracy in the figure. Comparison of the prediction metrics
of the DT and ET RF C classifiers with the baseline classifiers is shown in Table
2. As can be seen from Table 2, the prediction performance of the DT over the
ETRFC was much better than that of the benchmark classifications. At the end
of the test cycle, DT detected 62% of the football players injuries (recall rate of
0.62) and correctly predicted 42% of the football players injuries (precision of
0.42). From the test results, the machine learning method can improve the
scientific data support for the prevention of football players injuries in
adolescents.

                      Table 2: Comparison of projected indicators

 CLASSIFIER      CLASS     ACCURACY        RECALL           F1            AUC
                 0         0.97            0.98             0.98
 DT                                                                       0.75
                 1         0.42            0.62             0.45
                 0         1.00            0.99             0.97
 ETRFC                                                                    0.72
                 1         0.35            0.57             0.43
                 0         0.96            0.75             0.85
 B4                                                                       0.55
                 1         0.03            0.18             0.14
                 0         0.98            0.98             0.98
 B3                                                                       0.53
                 1         0.04            0.03             0.04
                 0         0.98            1.00             0.99
 B2                                                                       0.51
                 1         0.00            0.00             0.00
                 0         0.00            0.00             0.00
 B1                                                                       0.51
                 1         0.01            1.00             0.06

       The classifiers performed marginally worse than the previous three
selected features when using the whole feature dataset for DT, ETRFC, and
baseline training, with precision, recall, F1 score, and AUC of 0.39, 0.56, 0.45,
and 0.73, respectively. In order to investigate whether the position of the athlete
affects the likelihood of injuries, different classifiers were applied to the three
positions of the athlete (defender, midfielder and striker) and comparisons
revealed much worse performance than the classifiers without differentiation.
In order to investigate whether the position of the athlete affects the likelihood
of injury, we used different classifiers for the three positions (defender,
midfielder and striker), and found that the performance was much worse than
that of the classifiers that did not differentiate between the positions, with a
precision, recall, F1 score and AUC of 0.01, 0.03, 0.04 and 0.53, respectively.

5. Conclusion

       A strategy for forecasting injuries in youth soccer players is proposed in
this study. Our technology can be used by athletic trainers, coaches, and
physical therapists to optimize training sessions, thereby preventing injuries,


                                         487
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


improving training, and lowering rehabilitation expenditures. The suggested
study shows how machine learning may be utilized to handle tough football
players analytical problems like injury prediction. If the dataset is enlarged to
include more teams, it is possible to develop a more generalized and stable
injury prediction algorithm. When dealing with a larger number of injuries, the
problem can be converted from a binary classification (injury/no injury) to a
multilevel classification or regression problem, where information about the kind
or severity of the injury can be used to make more diverse predictions. Finally,
due to the model's adaptability, the prediction method can be easily extended
to forecast injuries in other professional football players or in adult athletes.

Acknowledgement

      1. 2022 Guangxi University young and middle-aged teachers Research
basic ability Improvement Project (Number: 2022KY1608). 2. 2023 Guangxi
Higher Education Undergraduate Teaching Reform Project, (Number:
2023JGA419).

Reference

Al-Asadi, M. A. M. (2018). Decision support system for a football team
       management by using machine learning techniques.
Anooj, P. (2012). Clinical decision support system: Risk level prediction of heart
       disease using weighted fuzzy rules. Journal of King Saud University-
       Computer and Information Sciences, 24(1), 27-40.
Claudino, J. G., Capanema, D. d. O., de Souza, T. V., Serrão, J. C., Machado
       Pereira, A. C., & Nassis, G. P. (2019). Current approaches to the use of
       artificial intelligence for injury risk assessment and performance
       prediction in team sports: a systematic review. Sports Medicine-Open, 5,
       1-12.
Dash, S., Shakyawar, S. K., Sharma, M., & Kaushik, S. (2019). Big data in
       healthcare: management, analysis and future prospects. Journal of big
       data, 6(1), 1-25.
Diehr, G., & Hunt, E. B. (1968). A comparison of memory allocation algorithms
       in a logical pattern recognizer: Department of Psychology, University of
       Washington.
Du, J., Liu, Y., Yu, Y., & Yan, W. (2017). A prediction of precipitation data based
       on support vector machine and particle swarm optimization (PSO-SVM)
       algorithms. Algorithms, 10(2), 57.
Gadaras, I., & Mikhailov, L. (2009). An interpretable fuzzy rule-based
       classification methodology for medical diagnosis. Artificial intelligence in
       medicine, 47(1), 25-41.
Gorzałczany, M. B., & Rudziński, F. (2017). Interpretable and accurate medical
       data classification–a multi-objective genetic-fuzzy optimization approach.
       Expert systems with applications, 71, 26-39.

                                         488
       Rev.int.med.cienc.act.fís.deporte - vol. 24 - número 96 - ISSN: 1577-0354


He, L., La, Y., Yan, Y., Wang, Y., Cao, X., Cai, Y., . . . Feng, Q. (2022). The
       prevalence and burden of four major chronic diseases in the Shanxi
       Province of Northern China. Frontiers in public health, 10, 985192.
Karnuta, J. M., Luu, B. C., Haeberle, H. S., Saluan, P. M., Frangiamore, S. J.,
       Stearns, K. L., . . . Makhni, E. C. (2020). Machine learning outperforms
       regression analysis to predict next-season Major League Baseball
       player injuries: epidemiology and validation of 13,982 player-years from
       performance and injury profile trends, 2000-2017. Orthopaedic journal
       of sports medicine, 8(11), 2325967120963046.
Kim, J.-H. (2009). Estimating classification error rate: Repeated cross-
       validation, repeated hold-out and bootstrap. Computational statistics &
       data analysis, 53(11), 3735-3745.
Luu, B. C., Wright, A. L., Haeberle, H. S., Karnuta, J. M., Schickendantz, M. S.,
       Makhni, E. C., . . . Ramkumar, P. N. (2020). Machine learning
       outperforms logistic regression analysis to predict next-season NHL
       player injury: an analysis of 2322 players from 2007 to 2017.
       Orthopaedic journal of sports medicine, 8(9), 2325967120953404.
Ruddy, J. D., Cormack, S. J., Whiteley, R., Williams, M. D., Timmins, R. G., &
       Opar, D. A. (2019). Modeling the risk of team sport injuries: a narrative
       review of different statistical approaches. Frontiers in physiology, 10, 829.
Seera, M., & Lim, C. P. (2014). A hybrid intelligent system for medical data
       classification. Expert systems with applications, 41(5), 2239-2249.
Soleimanian, F., Mohammadi, P., & Hakimi, P. (2012). Application of decision
       tree algorithm for data mining in healthcare operations: a case study. Int
       J Comput Appl, 52(6), 21-26.
Theron, G. F. (2020). The use of data mining for predicting injuries in
       professional football players.
Wang, R., Kwong, S., Wang, X.-Z., & Jiang, Q. (2014). Segment based decision
       tree induction with continuous valued attributes. IEEE transactions on
       cybernetics, 45(7), 1262-1275.




                                         489
Copyright of International Journal of Medicine & Science of Physical Activity & Sport /
Revista Internacional de Medicina y Ciencias de la Actividad Física y del Deporte is the
property of Revista Internacional de Medicina y Ciencias de la Actividad Fisica y del Deporte
and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without
the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or
email articles for individual use.
