The Influence of Running Demands in Hamstring Injury in Elite Male
Soccer Players. A Comparison Between Injured and Uninjured Players


Autores: Rafael Oliveira 1,2, Halil Ceylan 3, José Teixeira 4,5, Ben Ryan 6, Alexandre
Moreira 7, Ryland Morgans 6,8
1) Santarém Polytechnic University, School of Sport, Av. Dr. Mário Soares, 2040–413, Rio Maior, Portugal;
2) Research Centre in Sports Sciences, Health and Human Development (CIDESD), Santarém Polytechnic
University, School of Sport, Av. Dr. Mário Soares, 2040–413, Rio Maior, Portugal; 3) Physical Education
and Sports Teaching Department, Kazim Karabekir Faculty of Education, Ataturk, Turkey; 4) Research
Centre in Sports, Health and Human Development, Covilhã, Portugal; 5) Department of Sport Sciences,
Instituto Politécnico de Bragança, Bragança, Poland; 6) Brentford FC Football Research Centre, Brentford
FC, London, United Kingdom; 7) Department of Sport, School of Physical Education and Sport, University
of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; 8) School of Sport and Health Sciences, Cardiff Metropolitan University,
Cardiff, United Kingdom

Autor correspondente/Corresponding author: Rafael Oliveira, rafaeloliveira@esdrm.ipsantarem.pt

Resumo/Abstract:
Introduction: Injury analysis is a current trend topic in sports performance. Purpose: The
study aim was to compare the loading patterns of high intensity running and sprint dis-
tances in an elite soccer club. Specifically, the study compared any over- or under-loading
in the four weeks preceding hamstring injury between injured and uninjured players.
Methods: Thirty professional outfield soccer players from an English Premier League
club participated in the study (age 24.2 ± 6.1 years, weight 74.7 ± 7.8 kg, height 1.81 ±
0.09 m). Training and match data from the complete 2020/21 season was considered for
analysis in which injury information was collected. An 18Hz Global Positioning System
(GPS) technology tracking system was used to collect total distance, high-speed running
distance (total distance covered of 5.5 - 7m/s) and sprint distance (total distance covered
> 7m/s). Afterwards, the relative and absolute measures of previous metrics were calcu-
lated and used for analysis. These metrics were analyzed considering the four-hamstring
injury preceding weeks (-4, -3, -2, -1). Results: The main findings result showed that
sprint distance per minute was higher in injured than uninjured players in the week -1 (p
= 0.038; ES = -0.89). No other meaningful differences were found. This study highlights
the impact that sprint distance per minute displayed in the week preceding injury may
have on hamstring injury in elite English Premier League players. Such findings reinforce
the importance of longitudinal data collection, especially related with sprint distance
while the analysis of two, three- and four-weeks prior injury seems not to be adding sig-
nificant value. In addition, the importance of analysing relativized data (per minute) over
the absolute data was enphasised. Nonetheless, more studies are needed to confirm the
present results.
Palavras-chave/Key Words: External load; Football; Hamstrings; Relative Data; Sprint-
ing




                                                                                                      27
Copyright of Journal of Sport Pedagogy & Research is the property of Journal of Sport
Pedagogy & Research and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites without
the copyright holder's express written permission. Additionally, content may not be used with
any artificial intelligence tools or machine learning technologies. However, users may print,
download, or email articles for individual use.
